well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we are going to talk about an
abstract concept
called political capital
um it's something that is
very hard to quantify in fact any time
i've ever seen anybody try
i didn't like the way they did it but it
is very real
and it's at play all the time it's also
kind of hard to explain
so we're going to take it out of
politics
and bring it into a world that i know
everybody watching this
is going to be familiar with social
media
youtube okay
so political capital is basically
goodwill
it can be goodwill from your your base
so your voters or your subscribers
or goodwill from other politicians or
other creators
all right and then you have two kinds of
political capital you have reputational
and representative reputational is
goodwill from your base okay
so that is if you read about this
it'll say something along the lines of
being consistent
in policy or ideological stances
something along those lines
the reason it says that is because if
you are consistent and you continue to
get reelected
your base supports you okay so
reputational is about support from your
base
representative is political capital
related to
getting stuff done and
two different kinds so on youtube
you have let's take this channel as an
example
500 000 little less than subscribers
to me that's massive it's huge um
in the grand scheme of things on youtube
it's not we don't have a lot of
reputational
political capital but when it comes to
representative we have tons
because when we set out to do something
real world whether it be a fundraiser or
getting supplies to where they need to
be or hurricane relief or whatever
when we set out to do it we do it
therefore
people are more likely to support our
activities
in the future okay
so if somebody was to say hey
we're gonna raise money to hold a
barbecue and then the barbecue never
gets held
they failed they couldn't get stuff done
so their representative
political capital declines
if somebody makes a bunch of bad takes
and has a whole bunch of people
unsubscribed
bunch of bad videos their reputational
political capital
is declining this can also happen if
there's
a scandal of some kind okay
so that's how it works all of this
directly transfers to politics
and it is entering into a whole bunch
of political discussions right now
um as an example the pelosi aoc
medicare for all floor vote thing
political capital is
definitely entering into the decisions
of people involved in that
the trump mcconnell thing
that's entirely about political capital
trump
has a bunch of reputational political
capital
his base still supports him he doesn't
have much representative because he's
outgoing he can't get anything done once
he's out of office
mcconnell has a whole lot
of representative political capital
because he's been up there for so long
and he's got stuff done
and stops stuff from getting done which
i guess can also generate political
capital
and those two are battling for control
of the party and to show you that it is
always in play
crenshaw is taking a huge hit right now
in reputational political capital
because of the thing with the va
veterans are upset
that's a big part of his base he's also
taking a hit
because he followed somebody on twitter
that he
i guess people don't approve of him
following
um and that's causing a decline in a
reputational political capital
so that shows that it can be something
real the thing with the va
or something that realistically doesn't
matter who he follows on twitter
that can impact that kind of political
capital
now when you're talking about it going
into decline
it also impacts his representative
political capital people are going to be
less likely
to do him favors because if his
reputational political capital drops too
far
well he may not get reelected which
means he may not be there to return the
favor
so that's how this works
that that's a brief overview of an
abstract
concept that is incredibly hard to
quantify
but is very real and is at play with
every politician you know
it's worth noting that this isn't the
way it should be
but it's the way it is right now and it
is
definitely something that impacts
people's decisions
and it's just something that we might
should keep in mind
anyway it's just a thought you all have
a good day